Add release notes for 0.251 (#15923)
prestodb/presto: presto-docs/src/main/sphinx/release/release-0.251.rst

=============
Release 0.251
=============

**Highlights**
==============

**Details**
===========

General Changes
_______________

> * Improve dictionary writer performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Improve ORC dictionary writer performance.
```

Reviewer 2: In my opinion - if we cannot clearly point out the details of the improvement - how much improvement or what kind of queries it might help - we should not put this point in the release notes

Reviewer: My guess is any table that has varchar/string contents would be improved.  How about

`Improve ORC writer performance for string columns`

> * Add BigQuery Connector Plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Add BigQuery Connector.
```

=============
Release 0.251
=============

**Highlights**

> ==============

Reviewer 3: anything worth highlighting. How about the BigQuery connector and ORC dictionary performance improvement.?

Reviewer 2: I feel that the BigQuery connector is surely worth a callout here

**Details**
===========

General Changes
_______________
* Improve dictionary writer performance.

> * Add BigQuery Connector Plugin.

Reviewer 2: As per - we should create a new section `BigQuery Connector Changes` and then the bullet there can be `* Introduced BigQuery Connector. See :doc:`/connector/bigquery` to get started`

> * Added support for memozing dead nodes. This can be enabled by setting the ``internal-communication.memoize-dead-nodes-enabled`` configuration property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Added support for memoizing dead nodes. This can be enabled by setting the ``internal-communication.memoize-dead-nodes-enabled`` configuration property.
```

Also, it might not be clear to a Presto operator what "memoizing dead nodes" means.  Need to come up with some better clearer phrasing.

Reviewer 3: @NikhilCollooru can you please add a clearer description of what this property does.

Reviewer 4: How about the following :

Add support for a resilient cache affinity logic by memoizing the dead nodes. This will help in having a high data cache hit rate even if some nodes go down for a limited time. This can be enabled by setting the ``internal-communication.memoize-dead-nodes-enabled`` configuration property.

Reviewer 2: @NikhilCollooru 's suggestion while clarifies this, it is too long - 

```
Add support for improving cache affinity hit rate by preventing repartitioning when nodes go down for a limited time. This can be enabled by setting the `internal-communication.memoize-dead-notes-enabled` configuration property
```

> * Enforce NOT NULL constraint by checking values for NOT NULL columns.

Reviewer 2: We should use one of the words in this section to start a comment - https://github.com/prestodb/presto/wiki/Release-Notes-Guidelines#order-of-changes

```
Add support to enforce ``NOT NULL`` constraint by checking values for ``NOT NULL`` columns
```

> * Add support for improving cache affinity hit rate by preventing repartitioning when nodes go down for a limited time. This can be enabled by setting the `internal-communication.memoize-dead-notes-enabled` configuration property

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* Add support for improving cache affinity hit rate by preventing repartitioning when nodes go down for a limited time. This can be enabled by setting the `internal-communication.memoize-dead-nodes-enabled` configuration property
```

> * Remove hive-apache dependency on presto-orc.

Reviewer: I would remove this, it's hard to see how this is relevant to any user of Presto.

> JDBC Connector Changes

Reviewer 2: Is this `JDBC connector changes` ? Is JDBC a connector ? I believe this should just be `JDBC Changes`

Reviewer: JDBC connectors all share a common module and extend from common classes.  But that's an implementation detail to a Presto operator.  In the past, what happens is we take a look at all dependencies, and add separate sections for them.  E.g. one for MySQL connector, one for Postgres connector, etc.

> * NodeStatusService implementation is now expected to validate & check if a node is allowed to register with DiscoveryNodeManager based on node.location instead of node.id configuration parameter.

Reviewer: I don't think this belongs in release notes, it's internal to how Presto operates.

JDBC Connector Changes
______________________

> * JDBC connector allows user to pass username and password from CLI and other clients through use of extra credentials feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Allow JDBC connectors to accept username and password.
```

Reviewer 2: ```
Add support to accept username and password
```

This is the JDBC section - and hence saying "JDBC connectors" is redundant

Hive Changes
____________

> * Support Cache Quota when using Alluxio cache

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* Support cache quota when using Alluxio cache
* Enable different eviction policies of Alluxio cache 
```

> * Add configuration property cache.alluxio.eviction-policy to set eviction policy for Alluxio caching.

Reviewer 2: the property name should be in double back quotes

Verifier Changes
________________

> * Increase verifier retry and determinism analysis limits.

Reviewer 2: I think we can skip this

Reviewer: Verifier is more technical in nature and I think it's relevant.  If one uses verifier, they'll be interested in this change.

=============
Release 0.251
=============

**Highlights**
==============
* Introduced BigQuery Connector.

**Details**
===========

General Changes
_______________
* Improve ORC writer performance for string columns.

> * Add support for improving cache affinity hit rate by preventing repartitioning when nodes go down for a limited time. This can be enabled by setting the `internal-communication.memoize-dead-nodes-enabled` configuration property

Reviewer 2: configuration properties go under double back quotes - 

```
``internal-communication....``
```

and generally we mention the whole thing - 

```
this can be enabled by setting the <x> configuration property to ``value``
```

Author: Fixed in latest revision

> * Add support to enforce NOT NULL constraint by checking values for NOT NULL columns.

Reviewer 2: double back quotes for ``NOT NULL``

JDBC Connector Changes
______________________
* Add support to accept username and password.

> Big Query Connector Changes

Reviewer 2: Given how Google mentions it - https://www.google.com/search?q=big+query - `BigQuery` is a single word with capital B and Q - lets maintain their brand name

Author: Fixed in latest revision

___________________________
* Introduced Big Query Connector. See :doc:`/connector/bigquery` to get started

Hive Changes
____________

> * Support cache quota when using Alluxio cache

Reviewer 2: `Add support for cache quota when using Alluxio cache`

Author: Fixed in latest revision
